### Fundoo notes(drf) API

Git Branch:

## v2/step-1(api-cbv)

content:

1. API View

    - `rest_framework.view.APIView`
      This is a step-up of `method based view`. While method based view provides fully customisable platform, it provides `rest-methods(GET,POST etc.)` based platform. It is the parent class to the rest of advance/complex `View` class. It lags features like `pagination_classes`, `serializer_class`, `lookup_field` etc.

        **Note**
        drf-yasg won't work by default in this view class since it lags `serializer_class` and `lookup_field` attr. so manual integration is necessary.

2. Generic View

    - `rest_framework.generics.GenericAPIView`
    - `rest_framework.generics.ListCreateAPIView`
    - `rest_framework.generics.RetrieveUpdateDestroyAPIView`
    - etc

    This is 1 layer on top of `APIView`. It has features like `pagination_classes`, `serializer_class`, `lookup_field`, which makes it easier to intigrate with `Swagger documentation`.
    It fully customisable but advised to use it algong with mixin classes or use specific generic class like `ListAPIView`, `CreateAPIView`, `ListCreateAPIView` etc.

    **Note**
    default `pagination` won't work `GenericAPIView` only. so manually include this feature or inherit `ListAPIView`.
    for more look into `apps.note.NoteListView.post()`

3. Mixins

    1. `rest_framework.mixins.ListModelMixin`
    2. `rest_framework.mixins.CreateModelMixin`
    3. `rest_framework.mixins.DestroyModelMixin`
    4. `rest_framework.mixins.RetrieveModelMixin`
    5. `rest_framework.mixins.UpdateModelMixin`
    6. etc.
       These are the foundation of generic classes. After inheriting these, view will be expose to methods like `create`, `list`, `retrieve`, `update`, `destroy` etc of there respective rest-methods.

4. ViewSet

    - `rest_framework.viewsets.ModelViewSet`
    - `rest_framework.viewsets.ViewSet`
    - `rest_framework.viewsets.ReadOnlyModelViewSet`
    - `rest_framework.viewsets.GenericlViewSet`

It is the most flexible class based view in drf library.

It enable multiple instance of rest-method in a single view class.

Look into `apps.note.views.NoteModelViewSet` for implementation

Implementing viewset will break the usual routing structure. So modify regular

```python
urlpatterns = [
    ...
    path("<int:pk>", NoteView.as_view(), name="note-detail"),
    ...
]
# where in detail_views dict all keys are rest-methods and values are associated ViewSet methods.
```

into

```python
detail_views = {"get": "retrieve", "put": "update", "delete": "destroy"}
urlpatterns = [
    ...
    path(
        "<int:pk>",
        NoteModelViewSet.as_view(detail_views),
        name="note-detail",
    ),
    ...
]
# where in detail_views dict all keys are rest-methods and values are associated ViewSet methods.
```

Instead of manually typing all routes, it is better to use `Router`
`DRF` provides 2 router class.
`rest_framework.routers.SimpleRouter`
`rest_framework.routers.DefaultRouter`

while `DefaultRouter()` generate 2 sets of url patterns(with and `withouttrailing_slash`), `SimpleRouter()` only generate 1 set of url(with `trailing_slash`)
.
Also `DefaultRouter()` urls include response format in it.

e.i.

```python
"""
# DefaultRouter() url
http://localhost:8000/api/note.json

# SimpleRouter() url
http://localhost:8000/api/note
"""
```

#### Router Object

```python
router = routers.SimpleRouter(trailing_slash=False)
router.register(prefix="", viewset=NoteModelViewSet, basename="note")
urlpatterns = router.urls
```

Trailins slash in the url can be controlled by disabling(`trailing_slash=False`) it in the router object.

`prefix`: keyword used in the url prefix to the current route
i.e http://localhost:8000/[prefix-keyword]/regular/route
`basename`: keyword used to name api

```python
# without prefix
router.register(prefix="", viewset=NoteModelViewSet, basename="abc")
path("<int:pk>", NoteModelViewSet.as_view(...), name="[abc]-detail"),

# with prefix
router.register(prefix="xyz", viewset=NoteModelViewSet, basename="abc")
path("xyz/<int:pk>", NoteModelViewSet.as_view(...), name="[abc]-detail"),
```

[Check for more](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/api-guide/routers/)
